---
layout: post
title: glossary
---

*Definitions are abbreviated and abridged.*  


1. *Accounts*: A "container" (bucket) that tracks specific assets, liabilities, equity, income, or expenses

2. *Accounting Equation*: $$A = L + E$$   

3. *Accounting Cycle*: **Record, process, report**, [See post](https://mcc-us.github.io/2023-12-25-accounting-cycle.html)

4. *Account form balance sheet*: A balance sheet that lists assets on the left and liabilities and owner's equity on the right (see also Report form balance sheet).   

5. *Accrual basis of accounting assumption*: States that the effects of all transactions and other events are recognized in the accounting records when they occur, RATHER than when cash or its equivalent are exchanged.   

1. *Acid Test*: commonly known as the Quick Ratio:   
$$A.T. =  \large \frac{Cash~ +~ Marketable~ Securities~ +~ A/R}{Current~ Liabilities}$$

6. *ADIP*: "Additional Paid-In Capital," This is an owner's equity act title.    
   
7. *Adjusting entries*: Journal entries are made to update accounts for items that were **not recorded** during the accounting period 

8. *Adjustment*: A change made to an account that reflects its accurate or updated balances at the end of a period. (**"updates to keep things accurate"**)   

9.  *ALORE*: = Assets, Liabilities, Owner's Equity, Revenue, Expenses   

10. *Audit Trail*: **"breadcrumbs leading to the source "**, A sequential chain of evidence (documents, entries) showing the origin and flow of information. Document numbers, check numbers, account reference numbers, dates, companies/individuals used, and equipment bought or sold should be listed.    

11. *Balance Ledger Form*: A balance ledger form is a two-column spreadsheet (debit and credit) that presents each Account's balances and net changes during a specific period. A ledger account form that shows the account balance after each Entry is posted.   

12. *Balance sheet*: A formal report of a business's financial assets, liabilities, and owner's equity at a specific point in time, **Uses: A = L + E**   

13. *Book Value*: The remaining cost of an asset after factoring in accumulated Depreciation.<br>- **Book Value = Equipment - Accumulated Depreciation**    

14. *Capital*: Financial investment in a business; **"Owner's equity"**   

15. *Chart of Accounts*: A master list of all accounts used by a company, organized by category and code for easy reference.   

16. *Classification*: Grouping transactions into relevant accounts.   

17. *Closing Journal Entries*: Closing entries transfer temporary account balances, like revenue and expenses, into permanent accounts like retained earnings, resetting temporary accounts to zero and preparing them for the next period.   

18. *Compound Entry*: A single journal entry affects multiple accounts, usually with debits and credits. (**One Entry, multiple impacts**)   

19. *Contra Account*: An account with an average balance opposite that of a related account.   

20. *Contra Asset Account*: A contra account reduces the balance of an asset account. 

21. *Correcting Entry*: An entry made to fix or adjust an error in a previous entry. (**An entry to fix mistakes**) 

22. *Credit*: Think RIGHT hand

23. *Debit*: Think LEFT hand 

24. *DEA-LER*: Dividends, Expenses, Assets / Liabilities, Equity, Revenue; 1-3=Debits, 4-6=Credits   

25. *Double-declining-depreciation*: Rate is twice simple linear Depreciation.   

26. *Doubling error*: occurs when a transaction is entered twice, for example a credit balance in the debit column.   

27. *Drawing Account*: An account that records owner withdrawals from the business, reducing their equity.   

28. *Equity*: synonyms   
    1. Ownership interest   
    2. Investment: Highlights the financial stake   
    3. Net assets: Focuses on the difference between assets and liabilities, representing the residual value owned by shareholders.   
    4. Capital: Broad term referring to the funds invested in a business.   
    5. Net worth   

30. *DEAR-CLIP*: **Drawings + Expenses + Assets + Receivables = Capital + Liabilities + Income + Payables**   

31. *Declining Book Value*: Each year's depreciation expense is calculated based on the asset's remaining book value at the beginning of that year, resulting in decreasing depreciation amounts over time.
    
32. *Depreciation*: The systematic allocation of an asset's cost over its useful life as an expense. (**Think: spreading out the cost of using something over time**)   

33. *EBITDA*: **Earnings Before Interest, Tax, Depreciation & Amortization** is a financial metric used to assess a company's operational profitability. It represents the profit generated by the core business operations, excluding the impact of financing decisions (interest expense), government regulations (taxes), and non-cash expenses related to assets (depreciation and amortization).

34. *EBITDA margin*: Provide insights into a company's operational efficiency and profitability. $$EBITDA~ ~margin = \frac{EBITDA}{Revenue}$$

35. *Fair market value*: FMV is the price an informed and willing buyer pays an informed and willing seller for an asset, assuming neither is under undue pressure. 
   
36. *Financial interest*: A claim on a company's profits or assets, typically represented by ownership through shares or investments, granting rights to dividends, voting power, and potential capital appreciation. **Think of An economic stake in a company**, expecting financial rewards.   

37. *Footing*: A calculation and sum written showing debits or credits of a column to check for accuracy.   

38. *Fundamental accounting equation*: **A = L + E / DEAR-CLIP**   

39. *General Journal*: The chronological record of all transactions before they are categorized and distributed to individual accounts. (**The first "bucket" for all transactions**)   

40. *General Ledger*: The central accounting record containing individual accounts for assets, liabilities, equity, income, and expenses. **The diary of a business.**   
    
41. *Income Statement*: alias; Statement of Operations, Profit and Loss Statement, consists of **Only Revenue and Expense accounts**     

42. *Income Summary*: A special owner’s equity account that is used only in the closing process to summarize the results of operations
   
43. *Intangible Assets*: Businesses pigeonhole intangible assets into two main categories **Identifiable and Unidentifiable**.
    1. An **identifiable intangible** asset may be a patent, copyright, trademark, algorithm or domain name that can be bought or sold. Therefore, it can be separated from a business.
    2.  An **unidentifiable intangible** asset can’t be separated from a business. That means a business can’t buy or sell an unidentifiable asset. Examples of unidentifiable assets are brand recognition, corporate reputation and client relationships and lists.

44. *Internal Control*: Policies/procedures implemented to **safeguard assets, ensure accurate financial records, and comply with laws and regulations**.   
   
45. *Journal*: A formal record of financial transactions in chronological order, typically with debits and credits for each Entry. (**Record of original entry**)   

46. *Journalizing*: Analyzing and recording transactions in a journal using debits and credits according to accounting principles. (**Putting transactions into words & numbers)**   
    
47. *List of approved suppliers*: Used as an internal control.   

48. *Ledger*: A collection of individual accounts categorized by function (assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses) that records the balances and activity details of each Account based on entries in the general journal. **The record of final entry**   
    
49. *Net30*: The most common payment term is Net 30. A Net 30 payment term means the merchant expects the buyer to make payment in full within 30 days of the invoice date. Other common invoice payment terms are Net 60, 1/10 Net 30 (1/10, n/30) and Due on receipt, [QBO-Net30](https://quickbooks.intuit.com/r/e-commerce/what-do-net30-and-other-invoice-payment-terms-mean/)
    
50. *Normal Balance*: The normal balance of an account is its **increase** side.   

51. *Permanent Account*: Accounts carried over to the next accounting period that reflect long-term financial standing **assets, liabilities, and equity**.   

52. *Prepaid Expenses*: Expenses that are paid in advance but have not been used or consumed. Think: rent or insurance.   
   
53. *Posting*: Transferring recorded transactions from the general journal to individual accounts in the general ledger. **Posting = transferring data from a journal to a ledger**.    
   
54. *Postclosing trial balance*: A statement that is prepared to prove the equality of total debits and credits after the closing process is completed

55. *Quick Assets*:   
    1. **Q.A. = TCA - Inventory - PE** where TCA = Total current assets, PE = Prepaid expenses​   
    2. **Q.A. = Cash + CE + MS + NAR**, where CE = Cash equivalents, MS = Marketable securities, NAR = Net accounts receivable​   

56. *Quick Ratio*: descibes the ability to meet short-term obligations using "quick" to liquidate assets, Q.R. > 1.0.<br>$$\large Q.R. = \frac{Current~ Assets~ - ~Inventory~ - Prepaid~ Exp}{Current~ Liabilities}$$   

57. *Report Form Balance Sheet*: A standard template for financial reports that lists the asset accounts on the debit side, followed by liabilities and owner's equity on the credit side.   

58. *Salvage Value*: An asset's estimated resale or scrap value at the end of its useful life, usually after Depreciation. **"Scrap value"**   

59. *Slide*: An accidental movement of a decimal point.   

60. *Statement of Owner's Equity:* A financial statement summarizing changes in the owner's investment, including contributions, withdrawals, and profits/losses, showing the ending balance. **Report detailing what the owner puts in, takes out, & has left**   

61. *Straight-Line Depreciation*: Dividing an asset's cost (initial cost - salvage value) equally over its useful life as an expense. **Linear depreciation with a slope = -1.**   

62. *Temporary Account*: Accounts only used during an accounting period to summarize income and expenses, closing to zero at the end **Cost of goods sold, revenue**, etc.    

63. *Transposition*: Accidentally **Switching the order of digits** in a number.   

64. *Trial Balance*: A list of transactions and accounts after posting entries, **Debits MUST EQUAL Credits**.    

65. *Worksheet*: A form used to gather all data needed at the end of an accounting period to prepare financial statements.   