_pages/2-accounting-cycle.md, before:

---
title: the accounting cycle
category: 
layout: post
---

![Accounting Cycle Flowhart](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/cir.act.cycle.png)

## 1. Identify & Analyze Transactions

- Identify which accounts are impacted by the transaction. What are the account names & numbers?
- What accounts are increasing or decreasing? What accounts are the source of funds and what are the destination of the funds?
- Include date(s), notes for purchases, sales, payments, receipts, etc.

## 2. Record Transactions To Journal

- Entries should have three lines: debit, credit and description lines.

![example journal entry](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/example.journal.entry.png)

## 3. Post Transactions From Journal To Ledger

- Transactions listed in the Journal are transfered to their respective Ledger accounts.
- Each account has its own ledger for tracking.

![example ledger](/assets/misc/post.2.ledger.jpg)

## 4. Prepare Worksheet of Trial Balance(s)

- The accounting equation is not highlighted at this point.
- Instead, the Trial Balance lists all accounts in the journal/ledger with their *Normal Balances*, gerneally Assets, followed by Liabilities, Revenue, and Expenses. 

|Worksheet of Trial-Balance|
|:-:|
|![Worksheet](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/fig5.8f.preparation.of.bs.w.Circles.png)|

## 5. Make Adjusting Entries (If Needed)

- Adjustments are made for unrecorded expenses, accrued revenues, prepaid expenses, depreciation, etc., bringing the account balances closer to their actual economic value.
- Mistaken entries are also dealt with at this time.

## 6. Complete Adjusted Trial Balance, Income Statement & Balance Sheet

- After incorporating adjustments, a new trial balance is generated,
- This reflects a more accurate picture of the company's financial state at a specific point in time.

|Complete Worksheet|
|:-:|
|![Worksheet](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/fig5.8f.preparation.of.bs.w.Circles.png)|

## 7. Close the Books (If Needed)

Overview:   
1. Revenue & Expenses to Income Summary,   
2. Income Summary & Drawings to Capital  
- Closing may occur monthly, quarterly or yearly.   

---

- 4 Steps   
    1. Transfer **All Revenue (Credit Side)** accounts **Income Summary (Debit Side)** account.  
    2. Transfer **All Expense (Debit Side)** accounts **Income Summary (Credit Side)** account.  
    3. Transfer **Income Summary (Net Gain or Loss)** account to the **Owner’s Capital (Credit Side)**.  
    4. Transfer **Drawing (Debit Side)** account to **Owner’s Capital (Credit Side)** account.  

## 8. Prepare (Official) Financial Statements

1. Income Statement
2. Statement of Equity
3. Balance Sheet

## 9. Interpret & Archive Records

- All transaction details, journal entries, & supporting documents are securely stored for future reference & potential audits.

> #### NOTE: 
> *This is a general overview, & specific details or steps might vary depending on the business size, complexity, & industry practices. Additionally, software can automate much of this process, but underst&ing the underlying concepts remains crucial.*
{: .block-tip }

Commit message:

renamed closing and moved to _pages

_pages/2-accounting-cycle.md, after:

---
title: the accounting cycle
category: 
layout: post
---

![Accounting Cycle Flowhart](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/cir.act.cycle.png)

## 1. Identify & Analyze Transactions

- Identify which accounts are impacted by the transaction. What are the account names & numbers?
- What accounts are increasing or decreasing? What accounts are the source of funds and what are the destination of the funds?
- Include date(s), notes for purchases, sales, payments, receipts, etc.

## 2. Record Transactions To Journal

- Entries should have three lines: debit, credit and description lines.

![example journal entry](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/example.journal.entry.png)

## 3. Post Transactions From Journal To Ledger

- Transactions listed in the Journal are transfered to their respective Ledger accounts.
- Each account has its own ledger for tracking.

![example ledger](/assets/misc/post.2.ledger.jpg)

## 4. Prepare Worksheet of Trial Balance(s)

- The accounting equation is not highlighted at this point.
- Instead, the Trial Balance lists all accounts in the journal/ledger with their *Normal Balances*, gerneally Assets, followed by Liabilities, Revenue, and Expenses. 

|Worksheet of Trial-Balance|
|:-:|
|![Worksheet](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/fig5.8f.preparation.of.bs.w.Circles.png)|

## 5. Make Adjusting Entries (If Needed)

- Adjustments are made for unrecorded expenses, accrued revenues, prepaid expenses, depreciation, etc., bringing the account balances closer to their actual economic value.
- Mistaken entries are also dealt with at this time.

## 6. Complete Adjusted Trial Balance, Income Statement & Balance Sheet

- After incorporating adjustments, a new trial balance is generated,
- This reflects a more accurate picture of the company's financial state at a specific point in time.

|Complete Worksheet|
|:-:|
|![Worksheet](/assets/mc-graw-accounting-course/images/fig5.8f.preparation.of.bs.w.Circles.png)|

## 7. Close the Books (If Needed)

### Journalize & Post Closing Entries

Closing entries transfer the results of operating costs and net gain/loss to the *'Income Summary'* account then to the owner’s equity account (capital).
- Closing reduces the revenue and expense accounts to zero. So they are reset for the next period.

Overview:   
1. Revenue & Expenses to Income Summary,   
2. Income Summary & Drawings to Capital  
- Closing may occur monthly, quarterly or yearly.   

- 4 Steps   
    1. Transfer **All Revenue (Credit Side)** accounts **Income Summary (Debit Side)** account.  
    2. Transfer **All Expense (Debit Side)** accounts **Income Summary (Credit Side)** account.  
    3. Transfer **Income Summary (Net Gain or Loss)** account to the **Owner’s Capital (Credit Side)**.  
    4. Transfer **Drawing (Debit Side)** account to **Owner’s Capital (Credit Side)** account.  


- After the closing entries have been posted, the capital account reflects the Net Gain or Loss of operations for that period. 

- The revenue and expense accounts, with zero balances, are ready to accumulate data for the next period.
  
## 8. Prepare (Official) Financial Statements

1. Income Statement
2. Statement of Equity
3. Balance Sheet

## 9. Interpret & Archive Records

- All transaction details, journal entries, & supporting documents are securely stored for future reference & potential audits.

> #### NOTE: 
> *This is a general overview, & specific details or steps might vary depending on the business size, complexity, & industry practices. Additionally, software can automate much of this process, but underst&ing the underlying concepts remains crucial.*
{: .block-tip }
