---
layout: post
title: retained earnings Vs profit/loss act
tags:  worksheet
---

Q: What is the difference between retained earnings and profit or loss accounts, commonly found in charts of accounts?
Show drafts

A: While both retained earnings and profit or loss (aka. net income, or **Captial accounts**) are related to a company's financial performance, they represent different stages and concepts:

#### Profit or Loss (Net Income):

- **'Net Income' is a temporary account closed out at the end of the period & transfers its balance to the retained earnings account**.
- It is calculated by:
  $$Net~ Income~ =~ Total~ Expenses~ -~ Total~ Revenue$$ for a specific accounting period (month, quarter, or year).


#### Retained Earnings:

- Retained Earnings permanent account that carries its balance forward to the next accounting period.
- Retained Earnings represents the accumulated earnings of a company over its lifetime after accounting for dividends paid to shareholders. 
- Retained earnings INCLUDES net income as well as other capital accounts.
- Retained Earnings start at zero for a new company. Then it increases by the amount of net income each period unless there are losses.
- It decreases when dividends are paid out to shareholders.

In other words:

- Profit or loss: This is the company's current period's financial performance, like a snapshot of its earnings in a specific timeframe.

- Retained earnings: This is the company's accumulated wealth built up over time, representing the profits it has kept after accounting for dividends.

Yet another analogy:

- Imagine a company's profit or loss as its monthly income.
- Retained earnings are like a savings account, accumulating the total income (minus any expenses) over time.